docs: start databricks page (#4828)
iterative/dvc.org: content/docs/user-guide/integrations/databricks.md

# Databricks

> As of September 2023 Databricks doesn't expose the underlying GIT repo in your
> project, so GIT-related DVC functionality within the repo provided by Databricks
> is not supported (e.g. [experiments], `--rev/--all-commits/--all-tags/etc`). But
> everything will operate as normal if you `git clone` a project yourself or use
> remote projects with DVC directly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

<admon type="warn">

As of September 2023 [Databricks repos](https://docs.databricks.com/en/repos/index.html)
don't expose the underlying Git repo, so Git-related DVC functionality 
is not supported (e.g. [experiments], `--rev/--all-commits/--all-tags/etc`).
You can instead commit changes using Databricks repos, 
`git clone` the repo yourself, or download or stream data from remote DVC projects directly.

</admon>
```

## Install

```bash
%pip install dvc
```

## DVC API

> You can use your existing DVC projects through [Python API] as normal.

Reviewer: Can we add an example here like the one in `Secrets` but with publicly available data?

### Secrets

> If you need to use secrets to access your data, first add them to databricks
> secrets https://docs.databricks.com/en/security/secrets/index.html and then use

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you need to use secrets to access your data, first add them to [Databricks
secrets](https://docs.databricks.com/en/security/secrets/index.html) and then use
```

is not supported (e.g. [experiments], `--rev/--all-commits/--all-tags/etc`). But
everything will operate as normal if you `git clone` a project yourself or use
remote projects with DVC directly.

## Install

```bash
%pip install dvc
```

## DVC API

You can use your existing DVC projects through [Python API] as normal, for example:

```python
import dvc.api

with dvc.api.open(
    'get-started/data.xml',
    repo='https://github.com/iterative/dataset-registry',
) as fobj:
    ...
```

### Secrets

If you need to use secrets to access your data, first add them to databricks
secrets https://docs.databricks.com/en/security/secrets/index.html and then use
them with DVC, for example:

```python
import dvc.api

remote_config = {
    'access_key_id': dbutils.secrets.get(scope='test_scope', key='aws_access_key_id'),
    'secret_access_key': dbutils.secrets.get(scope='test_scope', key='aws_secret_access_key'),
}

with dvc.api.open(
    'recent-grads.csv',
    repo='https://github.com/efiop/mydataregistry',
    remote_config=remote_config
) as fobj:
    ...
```

## Running DVC commands

Databricks doesn't provide a classic terminal, so you'll need to use [magic

> commands] to run it, e.g. `!dvc add data`.

Reviewer: Is there any useful scenario we have in mind here without going into a deeper workflow? Would be good to have some example here also.

Author: Added config and import-url examples.

# Databricks

As of September 2023 Databricks doesn't expose the underlying GIT repo in your
project, so GIT-related DVC functionality within the repo provided by Databricks
is not supported (e.g. [experiments], `--rev/--all-commits/--all-tags/etc`). But
everything will operate as normal if you `git clone` a project yourself or use
remote projects with DVC directly.

> ## Setup

Reviewer: This doesn't apply to the dvc api example, right? Should we move it down or clarify that that there are two different workflows here? Maybe we should divide by working with a data registry vs working inside a dvc repo instead of API vs commands?

Author: @dberenbaum To the example itself no, but it apples to the API if you'll use `.` as a target, so I decided to keep it this way.

Author: > Maybe we should divide by working with a data registry vs working inside a dvc repo instead of API vs commands?

Thought about it, but felt strange, because those are the same cli commands and python API that can both accept remote urls and current repo.
